

I first attempted to build out this whole web app using just .NET and it was proving difficult as I didn't have much experience using .NET like this to build a web app. I did build some controllers for searching a user and getting a list of users. I connected it with the view window so I was able to view a list of users. I was also able to add a favorites tab where you could use the favorite users. I used a cache to store the users where the "Add to favorites" button was clicked.  I was having some trouble though from here trying to get a delete to work as it would just delete off the page and not from the cache. I did merge this code even though I couldn't finish it but you can see what I was able to build. If I had more time I definitely would have still liked to figure out to finish the whole thing in .NET.

I did end up building a React dotnet app as I feel more comfortable with that as I am very used to using it. To start off the challenge I created a service file where I would write out the api calls to the GitHub API. I also tested them first in Postman to make sure I had the correct endpoints and everything worked. I used axios to return the data to my react components.

With the service file built I started by making a users page that would use the get a list of users utilizing the api I just built and display cards of all the users. To store the data returned from the api call I used useState with an arrayOfUsers and that would be where all the users data would be stored. I then passed it to the a a separate SingleUser component. I passed it using props passed through importing that service in my map function. That component would render a card for each and display a bit of information. I added to each card a button to view the users profile as well as an added an Add to favorites button.

For the next step I learned a little about local storage as I never used it before but it was pretty straight forward. It logs a message to the console indicating that the function has been called and the user parameter passed in. It retrieves any existing "FavoriteUsers" data stored in local storage, and if there is none, initializes an empty array. If there is existing data, it parses it from JSON format into an array of objects. It checks if the user object passed in is already in the favoriteUsers array using the indexOf method. If it is not found (indexOf returns -1), the function adds the user object to the array and stores the updated array in local storage.
If the user object is already in the favoriteUsers array, the function alerts the user that the user is already in their favorites list. In both cases, the function displays an alert message to indicate whether the user was successfully added to the favorites list or not.

With my local storage I created a new Favorites page that would display all the favorite users. I just used my local storage to grab the users that were stored there and rendered them to the page. On these cards I added a delete button which will delete the person from local storage and also added an edit button. I used some conditional rendering to change the button so when you click add note it will change to edit note. I also hid the input so that it will only show when you click the add note button. It's not great but it shows a note about the person and also stores it in a separate local storage for notes.

Next I just added the search functionality to the users page. I already built the service so I just added the service into the component. The searchSuccess handler like the getAllUsers handler would receieve the data and store it in the array and that would render the searched user to the page through the mapper.

Lastly I just kind of cleaned up some things. I didn't like my Api call for users as it was not set up fully as I was only grabbing 30 users and you couldn't see any more so I added some functionality that would let you click a button and get the load more users.
I also added where you can click on the users picture and it will take you to a separate page that would display a list of repos that have in their profile. To do this on the singleUsers page I would pass state when you click on their image and then would use that state to run the usersService to initialize the repos api to find that users repos. Then I stored the repos data in a useState called repos. 

If I did have more time I would like this user page to look better with more information and more styling. I think it would be interesting to have a full page that is fully finished. I would definitely fix a lot of the styling things as well if I had more time like putting the buttons in correct places and things more centered and visually appealing. I would also fix the api call for the get a list of users. I know it's not perfect. I believe I would need to set up a variable that would get the id of the last user in the array and then use that to get the next list of users as the pagination goes off of the 'since' keyword. Overall it was a really fun project and really enjoyed it!